# Lantern

A modern, interpreted, statically typed scripting language, built from the ground-up using `Rust`.

**This is a pre-1.0.0 release! Expect bugs, crashes, and more!**

## Goals:

- Bullet-proof `null` safety
- Eloquent error handling
- Rich standard library
- Package system
- Powerful tools for testing
- Extendability with custom runtimes

The goals above are what we are striving for in the long-run, however, there is still much to do in the early stages of this project.

## Todo List:

- [x] Tokenizer
- [x] AST Parser
- [x] Runtime
- [x] Records
- [x] Options
- [ ] Results
- [ ] Compile-time type checking
- [ ] Multi-file support
- [ ] External package support
- [ ] Inheritance
- [ ] Documentation system
- [ ] Generics
- [ ] Improved compiler and runtime errors (accurate line and column numbers)
  - 3 todos left!
- [ ] 100% doc coverage
- [ ] LSP server
- [ ] Tree-sitter parser
- [ ] `lantern test` command

There's still a long ways to go, so don't expect this to reach version `1.0.0` anytime soon!
(You can always contribute by making a pull request *wink wink*)

## Installation

0. Install `Rust` if you haven't already. Installation instructions can be found [here](https://www.rust-lang.org/learn/get-started).
1. Clone this repository and navigate to its root folder by running the following in your terminal:
```sh
git clone 'https://github.com/DatAsianBoi123/lantern-lang.git' && cd lantern-lang
```
2. Install the CLI tool by running `cargo install --path cli` in the root folder. This may take a while!

Congratulations! You have now installed `Lantern`.
Run `lantern -h` for info about running scripts, and try running some scripts in the `/scripts` directory.

Refer to the wiki to get started writing `Lantern` code.

A vim syntax file can also be found in `/syntax/la.vim`.

## Workspace Details

This project is broken up into multiple different crates, each with its own functionality.

- `lang` contains structs and enums that essentially bridge `Lantern` data with `Rust`.
For example, this crate includes a `LanternValue` enum that represents a lantern value such as a `str` or `num`.
- `parse` handles parsing of `Lantern` code.
Right now, this crate only performs lexical analysis and syntax analysis.
- `runtime` contains functionality to execute a list of statements generated by the `parse` crate.
- `builtin` contains builtin top-level functions and variables that are a part of the `std` library, such as `print`, `stringify`, and `input`.
Note that builtin records are not found in this crate, rather, are found in `lang`.
- `macros` contains procedural macros that assist in making native `Lantern` functions.
- `lantern` is the main crate that exports all the crates above.
- `cli` is the main cli used when installing this crate, executable using `lantern`.

